let's bring in Maran bashara he's alaz
senior political analyst he joins us now
from London Maran we've watched a
bombardment continue now for 10 days but
does something of this magnitude change
the calculus
here well certainly today was
uh worse than anything we've seen before
um the idea that a school is bombarded a
hospital is
bombarded apartment building
are
bombarded hundreds many hundreds of
civilians die within
hours that's a a Perpetual
Massacre this is a massacre on a on a
scale we haven't seen probably since the
second world
war and uh it is not uh you know more of
the same uh talk about collateral damage
this is not collateral damage in in a
war
situation the last two days we've heard
from the Israeli leaders notably the
Israeli president himself isak Herzog
saying that there there are no innocent
Palestinians in Gaza saying that they
are all responsible for the
attack on Southern
Israel and hence this massacre does in
fact uh take the shape of a genocide
because there is now a stated clear
intent to hurt the pales in they are not
collateral damage killed by mistake in a
bombardment of the Gaza Strip these are
now targeted even the people who are
fleeing for their life to the South are
being bombarded clearly no one is safe
in Gaza nowhere is safe in Gaza nothing
is safe in guysa Maran we've seen well
attempts at the UN Security Council for
resolu resolution nothing's happened
there there have been calls multiple
calls from Human Rights organizations
for some kind of a ceasefire also a
humanitarian Corridor neither of those
things have happened where are we at now
in terms of of mediation or or some path
forward does what we're seeing tonight
change the political calculus
potentially for members of the
International
Community it must of course but the
International Community has proving to
be impotent and indifferent in large
part and clearly the part of the
International Community that uh has been
flexing its muscle it has been basically
empowering Israel watching uh the German
Chancellor today uh just you know wants
to make you cry uh as if never again it
means never again to a certain people
not to humanity as if the Palestinians
are people of a lesser God than Jews
such indifference such cynicism such
hypocrisy on the part of western leaders
uh this week
today uh simply ignoring Palestinian
Sovereign really uh you know what makes
one question uh a number of things that
one thought were constant but back to
your question I think I think there is a
way out in the next 24 hours and and
please listen carefully because this is
important
those who are meeting with President
Biden
tomorrow Palestinians jordanians and
Egyptians yes they are all on the
American payroll yes they are dependent
on American
assistance but they are also Arabs and
Palestinians and instead of more backs
slapping with the US Secretary State
they need now today in light of this
massacre
make their position clear we will not
meet with President Biden tomorrow
unless there is a
ceasefire this should have been their
position already before today's Massacre
but now that today's massacres with
hundreds perhaps more of
Palestinian
Deads thousands of casualties within one
day this definitely requires a
Palestinian Arab position okay at least
a Palestinian position those Palestinian
officials in Aman who are getting
excited about meeting the American
president should take a political
position a moral ethical position on the
side of their
people by simply saying we will only
meet if you the American president put
pressure on Israel that is also also in
the American payroll not just American
payroll four plus billion dollars a year
from the American taxpayers certainly
the American president has leverage with
this genocidal Israeli government and I
think it would be not only a huge
embarrassment this will probably be the
biggest setbacks of all setbacks of the
past two three years if Arab leaders
especially the Palestinian leader tell
the American president look we cannot
afford to be
complicit in your supported war crimes
against the Palestinian people anymore I
think it's doable I think they can get
away with it and I think it will put
enough pressure on President Biden as he
makes his long flight to Amman Jordan to
reconsider and to start putting applying
some pressure on the Israeli government
to stop their Massacre against the
Palestinians Mar one as we watch these
pictures here and we're watching
pictures from alifa hospital where a lot
of the injured have been taken after
that blast at the Ali Arab hospital and
and you and I have spoken about how the
US position or the US tone on the
humanitarian situation in Gaza has
shifted somewhat over the last few days
as we see these pictures including a
huge amount of injured children and
women and as we look at these numbers
which we've gotten from the Palestinian
health Ministry at least 500 dead what
does this mean for Biden's trip you've
spoken a little bit there about what
Arab leaders should be demanding of
Biden what is Biden's position in going
into those conversations that he's going
to be having with Netanyahu he's going
to be facing huge amounts of pressure at
home absolutely look uh we've seen a bit
of a trajectory the past few days since
secretary blink started his uh tour of
the Middle East back and forth between
AR capitals and clearly there's been
some slight change in tone we are no
longer talking about ethnically
cleansing the Palestinians and throwing
them into
siai
so-called humanitarian Corridor a really
really orwan ugly term of terming ethnic
cleansing but now the secretary state is
talking about safe Zone well that's
another orwan concept that's clearly
shown it itself to be today that's just
another way of Israel being able to
Target bombing civilians even those who
are fleeing for their lives even those
who are injured in hospitals even those
who are looking for shelter so there is
a change of tone but there isn't a real
change in policy and that's the problem
the American Administration knowing that
the world is
watching and it must be taking some
initiatives aside from its unconditional
support to Israel's genocidal war and it
has become now truly genocidal war in
Gaza they need
to create the impression that they also
care about human life and that they want
to help with the humanitarian disaster
but in fact by giving Israel the green
light K blanch
unconditional support to carry on with
its bombardment of Gaza they are not
helping at all they're simply putting a
bandaid over a
cancerous policy that is leading to a
continuous permanent Perpetual Massacre
of a people who are basically more or
less unarmed and just trying to survive
Maran bashara there Al jazer senior
political analyst sharing those thoughts
with us from London thank you very much
Maran